docs/configuration.md, before:

# Configuration Guide

All the ways to configure **vidpipe** — CLI flags, environment variables, the `.env` file, and `brand.json`.

---

## Priority Order

Configuration values are resolved in this order (first match wins):

1. **CLI flags** — `--openai-key sk-...`
2. **Environment variables** — `OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-...`
3. **`.env` file** — loaded automatically from the current working directory
4. **Defaults** — built-in fallback values

---

## CLI Parameters

### Positional Argument

| Argument | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `[video-path]` | Path to a video file to process. Implies `--once` mode. |

### Options

| Flag | Description | Default |
|------|-------------|---------|
| `--watch-dir <path>` | Folder to watch for new `.mp4` recordings | `$WATCH_FOLDER` or `./watch` |
| `--output-dir <path>` | Base directory for processed output | `$OUTPUT_DIR` or `./recordings` |
| `--openai-key <key>` | OpenAI API key (Whisper + agents) | `$OPENAI_API_KEY` |
| `--exa-key <key>` | Exa AI API key for web search in social posts | `$EXA_API_KEY` |
| `--once` | Process a single video (or next arrival) and exit | Off |
| `--brand <path>` | Path to `brand.json` config file | `$BRAND_PATH` or `./brand.json` |
| `-v, --verbose` | Enable debug-level logging | Off |
| `-V, --version` | Print version and exit | — |

### Skip Flags

Disable individual pipeline stages:

| Flag | Skips |
|------|-------|
| `--no-git` | Git commit/push after processing |
| `--no-silence-removal` | Dead-silence detection and removal |
| `--no-shorts` | Short clip extraction |
| `--no-social` | Social media post generation |
| `--no-medium-clips` | Medium clip (1–3 min) extraction |
| `--no-captions` | Caption generation and burning |

**Examples:**

```bash
# Process without generating shorts or social posts
vidpipe --no-shorts --no-social /path/to/video.mp4

# Skip git (useful during testing)
vidpipe --no-git --watch-dir ./watch

# Transcription + summary only (skip everything optional)
vidpipe \
  --no-silence-removal \
  --no-shorts \
  --no-social \
  --no-captions \
  --no-git \
  /path/to/video.mp4
```

---

## Environment Variables

Set these in your shell or in a `.env` file in the working directory.

| Variable | Required | Description | Default |
|----------|----------|-------------|---------|
| `OPENAI_API_KEY` | ✅ | OpenAI API key for Whisper and Copilot SDK agents | — |
| `WATCH_FOLDER` | ❌ | Directory to monitor for new video files | `./watch` |
| `OUTPUT_DIR` | ❌ | Base output directory for processed videos | `./recordings` |
| `REPO_ROOT` | ❌ | Repository root for git operations | Current working directory |
| `FFMPEG_PATH` | ❌ | Absolute path to `ffmpeg` binary | `ffmpeg` (from PATH) |
| `FFPROBE_PATH` | ❌ | Absolute path to `ffprobe` binary | `ffprobe` (from PATH) |
| `EXA_API_KEY` | ❌ | Exa AI API key for web search in social posts | — |
| `BRAND_PATH` | ❌ | Path to `brand.json` | `./brand.json` |

### Example `.env` file

```env
OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-your-api-key-here
WATCH_FOLDER=/home/you/Videos/Recordings
OUTPUT_DIR=/home/you/Content/processed
REPO_ROOT=/home/you/repos/vidpipe

# Optional: explicit FFmpeg paths
# FFMPEG_PATH=/usr/local/bin/ffmpeg
# FFPROBE_PATH=/usr/local/bin/ffprobe

# Optional: Exa AI for web search links in social posts
# EXA_API_KEY=your-exa-api-key-here
```

> A `.env.example` file is included in the repository — copy it to get started:
> ```bash
> cp .env.example .env
> ```

---

## Brand Customization

The `brand.json` file controls the visual identity and voice of all generated content — captions, social media posts, blog posts, summaries, and short clip descriptions. Customize it to match your personal or company brand.

### Location

Place `brand.json` in your project root. The tool looks for it in the current working directory by default. Override the path with:

- **CLI flag:** `--brand /path/to/brand.json`
- **Environment variable:** `BRAND_PATH=/path/to/brand.json`

> If no `brand.json` exists, sensible defaults are used automatically (name: `"Creator"`, handle: `"@creator"`, neutral professional tone).

### Example brand.json

```json
{
  "name": "Your Name",
  "handle": "@yourhandle",
  "tagline": "Your tagline here",
  "voice": {
    "tone": "professional, friendly",
    "personality": "A knowledgeable content creator.",
    "style": "Clear and concise."
  },
  "advocacy": {
    "primary": ["Technology A", "Technology B"],
    "interests": ["Topic 1", "Topic 2"],
    "avoids": ["Negative comparisons", "Overly salesy language"]
  },
  "customVocabulary": [
    "ProperNoun",
    "TechTermThatWhisperMightMisspell"
  ],
  "hashtags": {
    "always": ["#AlwaysInclude"],
    "preferred": ["#Often", "#Used"],
    "platforms": {
      "tiktok": ["#TechTok"],
      "linkedin": ["#Innovation"],
      "instagram": ["#CodeLife"]
    }
  },
  "contentGuidelines": {
    "shortsFocus": "Highlight key moments and insights.",
    "blogFocus": "Educational and informative content.",
    "socialFocus": "Engaging and authentic posts."
  }
}
```

### Field Descriptions

| Field | Type | Description | Default |
|-------|------|-------------|---------|
| `name` | string | Your display name — used in content attribution | `"Creator"` |
| `handle` | string | Social media handle — included in generated posts | `"@creator"` |
| `tagline` | string | Short bio/tagline for intros | `""` |
| `voice.tone` | string | Comma-separated tone descriptors for AI writing style | `"professional, friendly"` |
| `voice.personality` | string | Description of your public persona | `"A knowledgeable content creator."` |
| `voice.style` | string | How generated content should read | `"Clear and concise."` |
| `advocacy.primary` | string[] | Core technologies/brands you champion | `[]` |
| `advocacy.interests` | string[] | Broader topics the AI can reference | `[]` |
| `advocacy.avoids` | string[] | Things the AI should never include | `[]` |
| `customVocabulary` | string[] | Proper nouns and jargon sent to Whisper as a prompt hint to improve transcription accuracy | `[]` |
| `hashtags.always` | string[] | Included on every post, every platform | `[]` |
| `hashtags.preferred` | string[] | Commonly used — AI picks the most relevant | `[]` |
| `hashtags.platforms` | object | Platform-specific hashtags (keys: `tiktok`, `youtube`, `instagram`, `linkedin`, `x`) | `{}` |
| `contentGuidelines.shortsFocus` | string | What moments to extract as short clips | `"Highlight key moments and insights."` |
| `contentGuidelines.blogFocus` | string | Blog post structure and angle | `"Educational and informative content."` |
| `contentGuidelines.socialFocus` | string | Social media writing strategy | `"Engaging and authentic posts."` |

For full examples (developer, corporate, educator templates) and additional tips, see the [Brand Customization Guide](./brand-customization.md).

---

## Output Directory Structure

The `--output-dir` (default `./recordings`) is the base directory. Each video creates a subdirectory named after a slugified version of the original filename:

```
<output-dir>/
└── <video-slug>/
    ├── <video-slug>.mp4              # Original video copy
    ├── <video-slug>-edited.mp4       # After silence removal
    ├── <video-slug>-captioned.mp4    # With burned-in captions
    ├── README.md                     # AI summary with screenshots
    ├── transcript.json               # Word-level transcript
    ├── transcript-edited.json        # Adjusted transcript (post-silence-removal)
    ├── blog-post.md                  # Long-form blog post
    ├── thumbnails/
    │   └── snapshot-*.png            # Key-moment screenshots
    ├── shorts/
    │   ├── <short-slug>.mp4          # Extracted short clips
    │   ├── <short-slug>-captioned.mp4
    │   ├── <short-slug>-portrait.mp4 # 9:16 platform variant
    │   ├── <short-slug>.ass          # Caption file
    │   └── <short-slug>.md           # Clip description & metadata
    ├── medium-clips/
    │   ├── <clip-slug>.mp4           # 1–3 minute topic clips
    │   ├── <clip-slug>-captioned.mp4
    │   ├── <clip-slug>.ass
    │   └── <clip-slug>.md
    ├── chapters/
    │   ├── chapters.json             # Canonical chapter data
    │   ├── chapters-youtube.txt      # YouTube description timestamps
    │   ├── chapters.md               # Markdown table
    │   └── chapters.ffmetadata       # FFmpeg metadata format
    └── social-posts/
        ├── tiktok.md
        ├── youtube.md
        ├── instagram.md
        ├── linkedin.md
        └── x.md
```

---

## Common Configurations

### Content creator (full pipeline)

```bash
vidpipe \
  --watch-dir ~/Videos/Recordings \
  --output-dir ~/Content/processed \
  --brand ./brand.json \
  --verbose
```

### Quick transcription only

```bash
vidpipe \
  --no-silence-removal \
  --no-shorts \
  --no-social \
  --no-captions \
  --no-git \
  /path/to/meeting.mp4
```

### CI/CD or automation (no interactive, no git)

```bash
OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-... vidpipe \
  --once \
  --no-git \
  --output-dir /tmp/output \
  /path/to/video.mp4
```

---

## Troubleshooting

### "Missing required: OPENAI_API_KEY"

The tool requires an OpenAI API key. Provide it via:
- `--openai-key sk-...` flag
- `OPENAI_API_KEY` environment variable
- `.env` file in the working directory

### "ffmpeg: command not found"

FFmpeg is not on your system PATH. Either:
- Install FFmpeg (see [FFmpeg Setup](./ffmpeg-setup.md))
- Set `FFMPEG_PATH` and `FFPROBE_PATH` to the absolute paths of the binaries

### Verbose mode shows too much output

Verbose mode (`-v`) sets the log level to `debug`. If you only need it temporarily, pass the flag on the command line rather than setting it in `.env`.

### Watch mode doesn't detect files

Ensure the `--watch-dir` path exists and is writable. The watcher monitors for new `.mp4` files only. Files that already exist when the watcher starts are not processed — only newly created files trigger the pipeline.

Commit message:

feat: multi-LLM provider abstraction with cost tracking
- Add LLM provider abstraction layer (src/providers/types.ts)
- Create CopilotProvider wrapping @github/copilot-sdk
- Create OpenAIProvider with chat completions + tool calling agent loop
- Create ClaudeProvider wrapping @anthropic-ai/sdk
- Add provider factory with env-based selection (LLM_PROVIDER)
- Add per-model pricing tables (src/config/pricing.ts)
- Add CostTracker service for pipeline-wide cost reporting
- Refactor BaseAgent to accept LLMProvider instead of CopilotClient
- Update all 7 agents to use ToolWithHandler from provider types
- Integrate cost tracking into pipeline with markdown report output
- Add LLM_PROVIDER, LLM_MODEL, ANTHROPIC_API_KEY env config
- Update doctor command to check provider-specific API keys
- Update README, configuration.md, copilot-instructions.md docs

BREAKING: None - Copilot remains default provider with zero config changes

docs/configuration.md, after:

# Configuration Guide

All the ways to configure **vidpipe** — CLI flags, environment variables, the `.env` file, and `brand.json`.

---

## Priority Order

Configuration values are resolved in this order (first match wins):

1. **CLI flags** — `--openai-key sk-...`
2. **Environment variables** — `OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-...`
3. **`.env` file** — loaded automatically from the current working directory
4. **Defaults** — built-in fallback values

---

## CLI Parameters

### Positional Argument

| Argument | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `[video-path]` | Path to a video file to process. Implies `--once` mode. |

### Options

| Flag | Description | Default |
|------|-------------|---------|
| `--watch-dir <path>` | Folder to watch for new `.mp4` recordings | `$WATCH_FOLDER` or `./watch` |
| `--output-dir <path>` | Base directory for processed output | `$OUTPUT_DIR` or `./recordings` |
| `--openai-key <key>` | OpenAI API key (Whisper + agents) | `$OPENAI_API_KEY` |
| `--exa-key <key>` | Exa AI API key for web search in social posts | `$EXA_API_KEY` |
| `--once` | Process a single video (or next arrival) and exit | Off |
| `--brand <path>` | Path to `brand.json` config file | `$BRAND_PATH` or `./brand.json` |
| `-v, --verbose` | Enable debug-level logging | Off |
| `-V, --version` | Print version and exit | — |

### Skip Flags

Disable individual pipeline stages:

| Flag | Skips |
|------|-------|
| `--no-git` | Git commit/push after processing |
| `--no-silence-removal` | Dead-silence detection and removal |
| `--no-shorts` | Short clip extraction |
| `--no-social` | Social media post generation |
| `--no-medium-clips` | Medium clip (1–3 min) extraction |
| `--no-captions` | Caption generation and burning |

**Examples:**

```bash
# Process without generating shorts or social posts
vidpipe --no-shorts --no-social /path/to/video.mp4

# Skip git (useful during testing)
vidpipe --no-git --watch-dir ./watch

# Transcription + summary only (skip everything optional)
vidpipe \
  --no-silence-removal \
  --no-shorts \
  --no-social \
  --no-captions \
  --no-git \
  /path/to/video.mp4
```

---

## Environment Variables

Set these in your shell or in a `.env` file in the working directory.

| Variable | Required | Description | Default |
|----------|----------|-------------|---------|
| `OPENAI_API_KEY` | ✅ | OpenAI API key for Whisper transcription (and agents when `LLM_PROVIDER=openai`) | — |
| `LLM_PROVIDER` | ❌ | LLM provider: `copilot`, `openai`, or `claude` | `copilot` |
| `LLM_MODEL` | ❌ | Override the default model for the selected provider | Provider default |
| `ANTHROPIC_API_KEY` | ❌ | Anthropic API key (required when `LLM_PROVIDER=claude`) | — |
| `WATCH_FOLDER` | ❌ | Directory to monitor for new video files | `./watch` |
| `OUTPUT_DIR` | ❌ | Base output directory for processed videos | `./recordings` |
| `REPO_ROOT` | ❌ | Repository root for git operations | Current working directory |
| `FFMPEG_PATH` | ❌ | Absolute path to `ffmpeg` binary | `ffmpeg` (from PATH) |
| `FFPROBE_PATH` | ❌ | Absolute path to `ffprobe` binary | `ffprobe` (from PATH) |
| `EXA_API_KEY` | ❌ | Exa AI API key for web search in social posts | — |
| `BRAND_PATH` | ❌ | Path to `brand.json` | `./brand.json` |

---

## LLM Provider

VidPipe supports multiple LLM providers for AI agent features. Configure via environment variables:

| Variable | Required | Description | Default |
|----------|----------|-------------|---------|
| `LLM_PROVIDER` | ❌ | LLM provider to use: `copilot`, `openai`, or `claude` | `copilot` |
| `LLM_MODEL` | ❌ | Override the default model for the selected provider | Provider default |
| `ANTHROPIC_API_KEY` | ❌ | Anthropic API key (required when `LLM_PROVIDER=claude`) | — |

### Per-Provider Setup

- **Copilot** (default): No extra config needed — uses your GitHub Copilot subscription. Requires an active [GitHub Copilot](https://github.com/features/copilot) subscription.
- **OpenAI**: Set `LLM_PROVIDER=openai`. Uses the same `OPENAI_API_KEY` already required for Whisper transcription.
- **Claude**: Set `LLM_PROVIDER=claude` and `ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=sk-ant-...`. Get a key at [console.anthropic.com](https://console.anthropic.com/).

### Cost Tracking

The pipeline automatically tracks token usage and estimated cost for every LLM call. At the end of each run, a summary is printed showing total tokens, cost (USD for OpenAI/Claude, premium requests for Copilot), and breakdowns by provider, agent, and model. No configuration is needed — cost tracking is always on.

---

### Example `.env` file

```env
OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-your-api-key-here
WATCH_FOLDER=/home/you/Videos/Recordings
OUTPUT_DIR=/home/you/Content/processed
REPO_ROOT=/home/you/repos/vidpipe

# Optional: explicit FFmpeg paths
# FFMPEG_PATH=/usr/local/bin/ffmpeg
# FFPROBE_PATH=/usr/local/bin/ffprobe

# Optional: Exa AI for web search links in social posts
# EXA_API_KEY=your-exa-api-key-here
```

> A `.env.example` file is included in the repository — copy it to get started:
> ```bash
> cp .env.example .env
> ```

---

## Brand Customization

The `brand.json` file controls the visual identity and voice of all generated content — captions, social media posts, blog posts, summaries, and short clip descriptions. Customize it to match your personal or company brand.

### Location

Place `brand.json` in your project root. The tool looks for it in the current working directory by default. Override the path with:

- **CLI flag:** `--brand /path/to/brand.json`
- **Environment variable:** `BRAND_PATH=/path/to/brand.json`

> If no `brand.json` exists, sensible defaults are used automatically (name: `"Creator"`, handle: `"@creator"`, neutral professional tone).

### Example brand.json

```json
{
  "name": "Your Name",
  "handle": "@yourhandle",
  "tagline": "Your tagline here",
  "voice": {
    "tone": "professional, friendly",
    "personality": "A knowledgeable content creator.",
    "style": "Clear and concise."
  },
  "advocacy": {
    "primary": ["Technology A", "Technology B"],
    "interests": ["Topic 1", "Topic 2"],
    "avoids": ["Negative comparisons", "Overly salesy language"]
  },
  "customVocabulary": [
    "ProperNoun",
    "TechTermThatWhisperMightMisspell"
  ],
  "hashtags": {
    "always": ["#AlwaysInclude"],
    "preferred": ["#Often", "#Used"],
    "platforms": {
      "tiktok": ["#TechTok"],
      "linkedin": ["#Innovation"],
      "instagram": ["#CodeLife"]
    }
  },
  "contentGuidelines": {
    "shortsFocus": "Highlight key moments and insights.",
    "blogFocus": "Educational and informative content.",
    "socialFocus": "Engaging and authentic posts."
  }
}
```

### Field Descriptions

| Field | Type | Description | Default |
|-------|------|-------------|---------|
| `name` | string | Your display name — used in content attribution | `"Creator"` |
| `handle` | string | Social media handle — included in generated posts | `"@creator"` |
| `tagline` | string | Short bio/tagline for intros | `""` |
| `voice.tone` | string | Comma-separated tone descriptors for AI writing style | `"professional, friendly"` |
| `voice.personality` | string | Description of your public persona | `"A knowledgeable content creator."` |
| `voice.style` | string | How generated content should read | `"Clear and concise."` |
| `advocacy.primary` | string[] | Core technologies/brands you champion | `[]` |
| `advocacy.interests` | string[] | Broader topics the AI can reference | `[]` |
| `advocacy.avoids` | string[] | Things the AI should never include | `[]` |
| `customVocabulary` | string[] | Proper nouns and jargon sent to Whisper as a prompt hint to improve transcription accuracy | `[]` |
| `hashtags.always` | string[] | Included on every post, every platform | `[]` |
| `hashtags.preferred` | string[] | Commonly used — AI picks the most relevant | `[]` |
| `hashtags.platforms` | object | Platform-specific hashtags (keys: `tiktok`, `youtube`, `instagram`, `linkedin`, `x`) | `{}` |
| `contentGuidelines.shortsFocus` | string | What moments to extract as short clips | `"Highlight key moments and insights."` |
| `contentGuidelines.blogFocus` | string | Blog post structure and angle | `"Educational and informative content."` |
| `contentGuidelines.socialFocus` | string | Social media writing strategy | `"Engaging and authentic posts."` |

For full examples (developer, corporate, educator templates) and additional tips, see the [Brand Customization Guide](./brand-customization.md).

---

## Output Directory Structure

The `--output-dir` (default `./recordings`) is the base directory. Each video creates a subdirectory named after a slugified version of the original filename:

```
<output-dir>/
└── <video-slug>/
    ├── <video-slug>.mp4              # Original video copy
    ├── <video-slug>-edited.mp4       # After silence removal
    ├── <video-slug>-captioned.mp4    # With burned-in captions
    ├── README.md                     # AI summary with screenshots
    ├── transcript.json               # Word-level transcript
    ├── transcript-edited.json        # Adjusted transcript (post-silence-removal)
    ├── blog-post.md                  # Long-form blog post
    ├── thumbnails/
    │   └── snapshot-*.png            # Key-moment screenshots
    ├── shorts/
    │   ├── <short-slug>.mp4          # Extracted short clips
    │   ├── <short-slug>-captioned.mp4
    │   ├── <short-slug>-portrait.mp4 # 9:16 platform variant
    │   ├── <short-slug>.ass          # Caption file
    │   └── <short-slug>.md           # Clip description & metadata
    ├── medium-clips/
    │   ├── <clip-slug>.mp4           # 1–3 minute topic clips
    │   ├── <clip-slug>-captioned.mp4
    │   ├── <clip-slug>.ass
    │   └── <clip-slug>.md
    ├── chapters/
    │   ├── chapters.json             # Canonical chapter data
    │   ├── chapters-youtube.txt      # YouTube description timestamps
    │   ├── chapters.md               # Markdown table
    │   └── chapters.ffmetadata       # FFmpeg metadata format
    └── social-posts/
        ├── tiktok.md
        ├── youtube.md
        ├── instagram.md
        ├── linkedin.md
        └── x.md
```

---

## Common Configurations

### Content creator (full pipeline)

```bash
vidpipe \
  --watch-dir ~/Videos/Recordings \
  --output-dir ~/Content/processed \
  --brand ./brand.json \
  --verbose
```

### Quick transcription only

```bash
vidpipe \
  --no-silence-removal \
  --no-shorts \
  --no-social \
  --no-captions \
  --no-git \
  /path/to/meeting.mp4
```

### CI/CD or automation (no interactive, no git)

```bash
OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-... vidpipe \
  --once \
  --no-git \
  --output-dir /tmp/output \
  /path/to/video.mp4
```

---

## Troubleshooting

### "Missing required: OPENAI_API_KEY"

The tool requires an OpenAI API key. Provide it via:
- `--openai-key sk-...` flag
- `OPENAI_API_KEY` environment variable
- `.env` file in the working directory

### "ffmpeg: command not found"

FFmpeg is not on your system PATH. Either:
- Install FFmpeg (see [FFmpeg Setup](./ffmpeg-setup.md))
- Set `FFMPEG_PATH` and `FFPROBE_PATH` to the absolute paths of the binaries

### Verbose mode shows too much output

Verbose mode (`-v`) sets the log level to `debug`. If you only need it temporarily, pass the flag on the command line rather than setting it in `.env`.

### Watch mode doesn't detect files

Ensure the `--watch-dir` path exists and is writable. The watcher monitors for new `.mp4` files only. Files that already exist when the watcher starts are not processed — only newly created files trigger the pipeline.
